---
title: 'Nutshell'
date: 2024-11-11
permalink: /posts/2024/11/nutshell/
tags:
  - first post
  - introduction

---

Hello and welcome to the blog! I'm Daniel, and I'm thrilled to share a bit of my world with you. I'm a PhD candidate in Biological Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). I'm a computational molecular biologist who works with single-cell sequencing data to develop predictive models of biology. In my biggest project to date, I served (alongside the Qiu lab's Yifan Lu) as one of the two lead computational developers for [Spateo](https://www.cell.com/cell/fulltext/S0092-8674(24)01159-0), a comprehensive framework for analyzing 3D spatial transcriptomics data that attempts to identify molecular drivers of tissue patterning across space and time. As part of this project, we generated a 9 million cell mouse embryo dataset!

<video width="600" muted playsinline controls>
     <source src="/files/Spateo_video.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

I hold dual Bachelor's degrees in Molecular Biology and Electrical Engineering from the University of Wyoming.

I initially became interested in the concept of bioengineering early in my freshman year of college, being drawn to the promise of designing things to supplement what nature has already provided. However, it would not be until grad school that I would truly appreciate what bioengineering is and could be.  

What Am I Going to be Blogging About? 
======
The posts that will go here will primarily cover new happenings in biology, bioengineering and occasionally, computation, interspersed with more introspective pieces that derive from my own interpretations of my experiences. By writing about these things, my hope is that I can reinforce my understanding of new topics, by doing deeper research than I probably would otherwise. At some point, there may be some example data science projects or other learning resources that can be followed along. I'm a big proponent of experiential learning and exploration, and want to share resources to help with that! 


Let's Connect &#129309;
======
I'm always eager to learn about what's going on in bioengineering and computer science. Please reach out if you want to discuss anything posted here or just want to share ideas! In addition to the e-mail listed in my sidebar, you can also contact me at <a href="mailto:danielyumengzhu@gmail.com">my personal e-mail</a>. 